.TH shim 1 "February 14th, 2013" "Paradigm4 Inc."
.SH NAME
shim \- A basic HTTP service for SciDB.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shim
[\-h] [\-f] [\-n \fIPAM_service_name\fR] [\-p \fIhttpport\fR] [\-r \fIdocumentroot\fR] [\-s \fIscidbport\fR] [\-t \fItmpdir\fR] [\-i \fIinstance_id\fR] [\-m \fImax_sessions\fR] [\-o \fItimeout\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Shim is a super-basic SciDB client that exposes SciDB queries
through a simple HTTP API.
.TP
Shim can run on any computer that's running a SciDB coordinator instance.
.TP
Start shim and navigate to http://localhost:8080/api.html for detailed help on the API.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display help
.TP
.B \-f
Run in the foreground (defaults to the background).
.TP
.B \-p \fIport\fR
Listen on the specified port. Shim defaults to ports 8080 and 8083(SSL).
.TP
.B \-r \fIpath\fR
Set the HTTP document root to the specified path. Default installations
of shim use /var/lib/shim/wwwroot by default.
.TP
.B \-s \fIport\fR
Talk to SciDB on the specified port, 1239 by default.
.TP
.B \-t \fItmpdir\fR
Set the directory used for temporary file I/O, /tmp by default.
.TP
.B \-i \fIinstance_id\fR
Set the instance id used to save data, must have write access to \fItmpdir\rR.
.TP
.B \-o \fItimeout\fR
Set the HTTP session timeout. After this period of inactivity, an HTTP session
may be declared dead and its resources reclaimed. Default of 60 (seconds).
.TP
.B \-m \fImax_sessions\fR
Set the maximum number of concurrent HTTP sessions, default of 50.
.TP
.B \-a
Use the optional SciDB aio_tools plugin.


.SH AUTHOR
Written by Bryan Wayne Lewis, Paradigm4 Inc.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2012 Paradigm4 Inc.
